






















































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































Abates the ardour of my liver .
Abhorred slave ,
Absolute Milan . Me , poor man ,my library 
A chough of as deep chat . O , that you bore 
Acknowledge mine .
A confidence sans bound . He being thus lorded ,
A contract of true love : be not too late .
A contract of true love to celebrate ,
A daughter ?
A devil , a born devil , on whose nature 
Admir'd Miranda !
A dollar .
A dozen years ; within which space she died 
Advanc'd their eyelids , lifted up their noses 
A falsehood in its contrary as great 
A freckled whelp hag-born ,not honour'd with 
After summer merrily 
Against an oracle .
Against my life : the minute of their plot 
Against my very heart . Poor souls , they perish'd .
Against what should ensue .
Against your peace . Thee of thy son , Alonso ,
A goodly person : he hath lost his fellows 
A hearty welcome .
A howling monster , a drunken monster .
A human shape .
Alack , for mercy !
Alack , for pity !
Alack ! what trouble 
Alas ! now , pray you ,
Alas ! the storm is come again : my best way is to creep under his gaberdine ; there is no other shelter hereabout : misery acquaints a man with strange bedfellows . I will here shroud till the dregs of the storm be past .
A laughter .
A living drollery . Now I will believe 
Allaying both their fury , and my passion ,
All exercise on thee : thou shalt be pinch'd 
All hail , great master ! grave sir , hail ! I come 
All lost ! to prayers , to prayers ! all lost !
All points of my command .
All sanctimonious ceremonies may 
All's hush'd as midnight yet .
All the infections that the sun sucks up 
All things in common nature should produce 
All three of them are desperate ; their great guilt ,
All torment , trouble , wonder , and amazement 
All wound with adders , who with cloven tongues 
Although my last ; no matter , since I feel 
Although they want the use of tongue ,a kind 
Although this lord of weak remembrance , this 
A mark so bloody on the business ; but 
A match !
A matter from thee , and a birth indeed 
Ambition cannot pierce a wink beyond ,
Am I this patient log-man .
A most auspicious star , whose influence 
A most high miracle !
A most ridiculous monster , to make a wonder of a poor drunkard !
An advocate for an impostor ? hush !
And a clear life ensuing .
And after bite me ; then like hedge-hogs , which 
And all be turn'd to barnacles , or to apes 
And all the devils are here .' 
And all the more it seeks to hide itself 
And all the rest o' the fleet .
And are upon the Mediterranean flote ,
And as the morning steals upon the night ,
And as with age his body uglier grows ,
And be a boy right out .
And blister you all o'er !
And breathe twice ; and cry , 'so , so ,' 
And bring thee forth brave brood .
And brought us thus together ?
And burn in many places ; on the topmast ,
And by that destiny to perform an act 
And crown what I profess with kind event 
And deal in her command without her power .
And , deeper than did ever plummet sound ,
And do my spiriting gently .
And do the murder first : if he awake ,
And ,do you mark me , sir ?
And even with such-like valour men hang and drown 
And executing th' outward face of royalty ,
And Ferdinand , her brother , found a wife 
And flat meads thatch'd with stover , them to keep ;
And , for thou wast a spirit too delicate 
And gape at wid'st to glut him .
And give it way ;I know thou canst not choose .
And have no vigour in them .
And here was left by the sailors . Thou , my slave ,
And he's compos'd of harshness . I must remove 
And him he play'd it for , he needs will be 
And hinder them from what this ecstasy 
And his and mine lov'd darling .
And his brave son being twain .
And his great person perish .
And his more braver daughter could control thee ,
And hither come in't : go , hence with diligence !
And honour'd in their issue .
And how does your content 
And ,how we know not ,all clapp'd under hatches ,
And I'll be sworn 'tis true : travellers ne'er did lie ,
And in her most unmitigable rage ,
And in these fits I leave them , while I visit 
And I the king shall love thee .
And I thus humble ever .
And I will kiss thy foot . I prithee , be my god .
And I with my long nails will dig thee pig-nuts ;
And I would call it fair play .
And justify you traitors : at this time 
And left me to a bootless inquisition ,
And left thee there , where thou didst vent thy groans 
And let Sebastian wake !' Say , this were death 
And , like the baseless fabric of this vision ,
And , like this insubstantial pageant faded ,
And look how well my garments sit upon me ;
And make a vassal of him .
And make it halt behind her .
And makes my labours pleasures : O ! she is 
And make thy weapon drop .
And melt ere they molest ! Here lies your brother ,
And mine shall .
And mine , with my heart in't : and now farewell 
And mo diversity of sounds , all horrible ,
And most chirurgeonly .
And my dear father : how features are abroad ,
And my ending is despair ,
And observation strange , my meaner ministers 
And on this couple drop a blessed crown ;
And pardon'd the deceiver , dwell 
And peg thee in his knotty entrails till 
And pluck my magic garment from me .So :
And presently , I prithee .
And promise you calm seas , auspicious gales 
And prompt me , plain and holy innocence !
And Prospero the prime duke ; being so reputed 
And put it to the foil : but you , O you !
And rapt in secret studies . Thy false uncle 
And rather like a dream than an assurance 
And rest myself content .
And ride upon their backs : he trod the water ,
And sail so expeditious that shall catch 
And say what thou seest yond .
And seek for grace . What a thrice-double ass 
And show'd thee all the qualities o' th' isle ,
And sight-outrunning were not : the fire and cracks 
And some donation freely to estate 
And , sowing the kernels of it in the sea , bring forth more islands .
And strays about to find 'em .
And subjects none abroad : pray you , look in .
And suck'd my verdure out on't .Thou attend'st not .
And , sweet sprites , the burden bear .
And take his bottle from him : when that's gone 
And that a strange one too , which did awake me .
And , that he does , I weep : myself am Naples ,
And that most deeply to consider is 
And that you will some good instruction give 
And thence retire me to my Milan , where 
And then I'll bring thee to the present business 
And then take hands :
And the particular accidents gone by 
And the rarest that e'er came there .
And there is in this business more than nature 
And the remainder mourning over them ,
And there repose : a turn or two I'll walk ,
And these fresh nymphs encounter every one 
And these mine enemies are all knit up 
And they expect it from me .
And they shall be themselves .
And they to him are angels .
And think of each thing well .
And this .
And thy no greater father .
And thy sea-marge , sterile and rocky-hard ,
And time to speak it in ; you rub the sore ,
And to my state grew stranger , being transported 
And to thee and thy company I bid 
And Trinculo is reeling-ripe : where should they 
And 'twixt the green sea and the azur'd vault 
And use of service , none ; contract , succession ,
And watch your safety .
And were brought moping hither .
'And were the king on't , what would I do ?
And what does else want credit , come to me ,
And what is in't ,the never-surfeited sea 
And what strength I have's mine own ;
And when I rear my hand , do you the like ,
And will not be uplifted . But , remember ,
And with each end of thy blue bow dost crown 
And with him there lie mudded .
And women too , but innocent and pure ;
And worship this dull fool !
And ye , that on the sands with printless foot 
And yet I needs must curse . But they'll nor pinch ,
And yet methinks I see it in thy face ,
And yet so fast asleep .
And your affection not gone forth , I'll make you 
And yours it is against .
An if this be at all a most strange story .
An it had not fallen flat-long .
A noble Neapolitan , Gonzalo ,
Another way so high a hope that even 
Answer your summons : Juno does command .
An undergoing stomach , to bear up 
Any companion in the world but you ;
A plague upon the tyrant that I serve !
A plague upon this howling ! they are louder than the weather , or our office .
A pox o' your throat , you bawling , blasphemous , incharitable dog !
Approach , my Ariel ; come !
Approach , rich Ceres , her to entertain .
A prince , Miranda ; I do think , a king ;
A prince of power .
A princess ,no worse issued .
Are like invulnerable . If you could hurt ,
Are melted into air , into thin air :
Are ministers of fate : the elements 
Are natural breath : but , howsoe'er you have 
Are nobly undergone , and most poor matters 
Are then most humble ; I have no ambition 
Are worse than devils .
Ariel and all his quality .
Ariel , thy charge 
Arise , and say how thou cam'st here .
A rotten carcass of a boat , not rigg'd ,
Art ignorant of what thou art , nought knowing 
Art thou afeard ?
As amply and unnecessarily 
As bondage e'er of freedom : here's my hand .
As dreams are made on , and our little life 
As fast as mill-wheels strike . Then was this island ,
As great'st does least .
As great to me , as late ; and , supportable 
As he that sleeps here swims .
As Hymen's lamps shall light you .
As if it had lungs , and rotten ones .
As I foretold you , were all spirits and 
As if you were dismay'd : be cheerful , sir :
As I hope 
A single thing , as I am now , that wonders 
As I told thee before , I am subject to a tyrant , a sorcerer , that by his cunning hath cheated me of the island .
As I was sometime Milan .Quickly , spirit ;
As late I have been , I not know : thy pulse 
As many vouch'd rarities are .
As mountain winds ; but then exactly do 
As much as me my dukedom .
As my soul prompts it .Spirit , fine spirit ! I'll free thee 
As my trust was ; which had , indeed no limit ,
A solemn air and the best comforter 
A space whose every cubit 
As rootedly as I . Burn but his books ;
As stooping to relieve him . I not doubt 
As they smelt music : so I charm'd their ears 
As thick as honeycomb , each pinch more stinging 
As this Gonzalo ; I myself could make 
As thou report'st thyself , wast then her servant :
As we have , such ; this gallant which thou see'st ,
As well as he that sleeps ; lords that can prate 
As well as it does you : and I should do it 
As when they are fresh .
As wicked dew as e'er my mother brush'd 
As you from crimes would pardon'd be ,
As you like this , give me the lie another time .
A thing divine ; for nothing natural 
A thing most brutish , I endow'd thy purposes 
A thousand thousand !
A time before we came unto this cell ?
At least bring forth a wonder , to content ye 
At least two glasses . The time 'twixt six and now 
At mine unworthiness , that dare not offer 
At nothing can be more . I'll to my book ;
A treacherous army levied , one midnight 
At requiring ,
At this encounter do so much admire 
At this hour reigning there .
At thy request , monster , I will do reason , any reason : Come on , Trinculo , let us sing .
At which , like unback'd colts , they prick'd their ears ,
A vision of the island , one dear son 
Awak'd an evil nature ; and my trust ,
Awake !
Awake ! awake !
Awake , dear heart , awake ! thou hast slept well ;
A word , good sir ;
Ay ?
Ay , and a subtle ; as he most learnedly delivered .
Ay , and this .
Ay , but to lose our bottles in the pool ,
Ay , lord ; she will become thy bed , I warrant ,
Ay , my commander ; when I presented Ceres ,
Ay , on mine honour .
Ay , or very falsely pocket up his report .
Ay , sir .
Ay , sir ; where lies that ? if it were a kibe ,
Ay , that I will ; and I'll be wise hereafter ,
Ay , with a heart as willing 
Ay , with a twink .
'Ban , 'Ban , Ca Caliban ,
Barns and garners never empty :
Bate , I beseech you , widow Dido .
Batter his skull , or paunch him with a stake ,
Bear with my weakness ; my old brain is troubled .
Beat him enough : after a little time 
Beats , as of flesh and blood ; and , since I saw thee ,
Be collected :
Been justled from your senses , know for certain 
Befitting this first meeting . Welcome , sir ;
Before the time be out ? no more !
Before you can say , 'Come ,' and 'Go ,' 
Be free , and fare thou well !Please you , draw near .
Begins to swell , and the approaching tide 
Begin to chase the ignorant fumes that mantle 
Begun to tell me what I am , but stopp'd ,
Behold , sir king ,
Behold this maid : all corners else o' th' earth 
Being awake , enforce them to this place ,
Being capable of all ill ! I pitied thee ,
Being lass-lorn ; thy pole-clipt vineyard ;
Being most unfit to live . I have made you mad ;
Being once perfected how to grant suits ,
Be it so : Amen !
Believe things certain .Welcome ! my friends all :
Be living , and be here ?
Be measur'd , or confin'd .
Be not afeard : the isle is full of noises ,
Be not afraid ; I met her deity 
Be not disturb'd with my infirmity .
Be of comfort ;
Be patient , for the prize I'll bring thee to 
Be rough and razorable : she that , from whom ?
Beseech you , father !
Beseech you , sir , be merry : you have cause ,
Besides yourself , to like of . But I prattle 
Be so perfidious !he whom next thyself ,
Bestow upon the eyes of this young couple 
Betid to any creature in the vessel 
Beyond a common joy , and set it down 
Beyond all limit of what else i' the world ,
Be you quiet , monster .Mistress line , is not this my jerkin ? Now is the jerkin under the line : now , jerkin , you are like to lose your hair and prove a bald jerkin .
Bids thee leave these ; and with her sovereign grace ,
Boatswain !
Bore us some leagues to sea ; where they prepar'd 
Both , both , my girl :
Bound sadly home for Naples ,
Bourn , bound of land , tilth , vineyard , none ;
'Bove the contentious waves he kept , and oar'd 
Bravely , my diligence ! Thou shalt be free .
Bravely the figure of this harpy hast thou 
Brimful of sorrow and dismay ; but chiefly 
Brought my too diligent ear : for several virtues 
Brought to this shore ; and by my prescience 
Burnt up those logs that you are enjoin'd to pile !
Bury it certain fathoms in the earth ,
But are they , Ariel , safe ?
But , as 'tis ,
But blessedly holp hither .
But by immortal Providence she's mine ;
But certainly a maid .
But doth suffer a sea-change 
But doubts discovery there . Will you grant with me 
But ever see that man !
But felt a fever of the mad and play'd 
But , for your conscience ,
But fresher than before : and , as thou bad'st me ,
But never saw before ; of whom I have 
But none of us car'd for Kate ;
But O ! how oddly will it sound that I 
But one fiend at a time ,
But only Sycorax my dam and she ;
But rather lose her to an African ;
But release me from my bands 
But she as far surpasseth Sycorax 
But that I do not .
But that the poor monster's in drink : an abominable monster !
But that the sea , mounting to th' welkin's cheek ,
But the rarity of it is ,which is indeed almost beyond credit ,
But these sweet thoughts do even refresh my labours ,
But this thing dare not ,
But was not this nigh shore ?
But what my power might else exact ,like one ,
But yet thou shalt have freedom ;so , so , so .
But you , my brace of lords , were I so minded ,
By accident most strange , bountiful Fortune ,
By all of us ; and the fair soul herself 
By foul play , as thou say'st , were we heav'd thence ;
By help of her more potent ministers ,
By inch-meal a disease ! His spirits hear me ,
By moonshine do the green sour ringlets make 
By my so potent art . But this rough magic 
By Providence divine .
By'r lakin , I can go no further , sir ;
By their own fear or sloth .
By this good light , this is a very shallow monster .I afeard of him !a very weak monster .The man i' the moon ! a most poor credulous monster !Well drawn , monster , in good sooth .
By this light , a most perfidious and drunken monster : when his god's asleep , he'll rob his bottle .
By what ? by any other house or person ?
Calls her a nonpareil : I never saw a woman ,
Can be at once ,shall step by step attend 
Can have no note , unless the sun were post 
Can lay to bed for ever ; whiles you , doing thus ,
Can speak like us : then wisely , good sir , weigh 
Capering to eye her : on a trice , so please you ,
Carthage ?
Ceres' blessing so is on you .
Ceres , most bounteous lady , thy rich leas 
Certainly , sir , I can .
Chiefly that I might set it in my prayers 
Claribel .
Close by , my master .
Come ;
Come away , servant , come ! I'm ready now .
Come , follow .Speak not for him .
Come forth , I say ; there's other business for thee :
Come , hang them on this line .
Come hither from the furrow , and be merry :
Come hither , spirit ;
Come , kiss .
Come on .
Come on ; obey :
Come on then ; down , and swear .
Come on your ways : open your mouth ; here is that which will give language to you , cat . Open your mouth : this will shake your shaking , I can tell you , and that soundly 
Comes to the entertainer 
Come , swear to that ; kiss the book ; I will furnish it anon with new contents ; swear .
Come , temperate nymphs , and help to celebrate 
Come , thou tortoise ! when ?
Come unto these yellow sands ,
Come with a thought !
Concluding , 'Stay ; not yet .' 
Confin'd together 
Could not abide to be with ; therefore wast thou 
Could not again undo ; it was mine art ,
Cursed be I that did so !All the charms 
Curtsied when you have , and kiss'd ,
Cutting the clouds towards Paphos and her son 
Dash'd all to pieces . O ! the cry did knock 
Dashes the fire out . O ! I have suffer'd 
Dearly my delicate Ariel . Do not approach 
Delight in them sets off : some kinds of baseness 
Deservedly confin'd into this rock ,
Dew-lapp'd like bulls , whose throats had hanging at them 
Did Claribel her husband find at Tunis ,
Did make wolves howl and penetrate the breasts 
Did never meddle with my thoughts .
Did quarrel with the noblest grace she ow'd ,
Didst thou , Alonso , use me and my daughter :
Didst thou not say he hed ?
Did us but loving wrong .
Did worthily perform ; and I must use you 
Diffusest honey-drops , refreshing showers :
Do chase the ebbing Neptune and do fly him 
Do , do : we steal by line and level , an't like your grace .
Does now speak to thee , I embrace thy body ;
Do hiss me into madness .
Do I so ? take thou that .
Do I take part : the rarer action is 
Dolour comes to him , indeed : you have spoken truer than you purposed .
Do love , prize , honour you .
Done . The wager ?
Do not , for one repulse , forego the purpose 
Do not infest your mind with beating on 
Do not omit the heavy offer of it :
Do not smile at me that I boast her off ,
Do not torment me : O !
Do not torment me , prithee : I'll bring my wood home faster .
Do now attend the queen ? since they did plot 
Do so ; and after two days 
Do so : to ebb ,
Dost disobey the wife of Jupiter ;
Dost thou attend me ?
Dost thou forget 
Dost thou hear ?
Dost thou think so , spirit ?
Do that good mischief , which may make this island 
Doth it not then our eyelids sink ? I find not 
Doth thy other mouth call me ? Mercy ! mercy ! This is a devil , and no monster : I will leave him ; I have no long spoon .
Dove-drawn with her . Here thought they to have done 
Down with the topmast ! yare ! lower , lower ! Bring her to try with main-course .
Do you love me ?
Do you love me , master ? no ?
Do you not hear him ? You mar our labour : keep your cabins : you do assist the storm .
Do you not hear me speak ?
Draw together ;
Drink , servant-monster , when I bid thee : thy eyes are almost set in thy head .
Drop on you both ! a south-west blow on ye ,
Dropping upon thy head .
Dull thing , I say so ; he that Caliban ,
Each one , tripping on his toe ,
Each putter-out of five for one will bring us 
Earth's increase , foison plenty ,
Even here I will put off my hope , and keep it 
Even in a dream , were we divided from them ,
Even now , we heard a hollow burst of bellowing 
Even to roaring .
Every man shift for all the rest , and let no man take care for himself , for all is but fortune .Coragio ! bully-monster , Coragio !
Every third thought shall be my grave .
Exactly is perform'd : but there's more work :
Excellent .
Execute all things ; for no kind of traffic 
Expell'd remorse and nature ; who , with Sebastian ,
Expos'd unto the sea , which hath requit it ,
Fair encounter 
Fairly spoke :
Faith , sir , you need not fear . When we were boys ,
Fall fellowly drops . The charm dissolves apace ;
'Farewell , brother !' 'We split , we split , we split !' ] 
Farewell , master ; farewell , farewell 
Fated to the purpose did Antonio open 
Fetch in our wood ; and serves in offices 
Fetch me the hat and rapier in my cell :
Fetch us in fuel ; and be quick , thou'rt best ,
Fie , what a spendthrift is he of his tongue !
Fill all thy bones with aches ; make thee roar ,
Filth as thou art , with human care ; and lodg'd thee 
Find this grand liquor that hath gilded them ?
Fine apparition ! My quaint Ariel ,
First , noble friend ,
First to possess his books ; for without them 
Flout 'em , and scout 'em ; and scout 'em , and flout 'em ;
Follow , and do me service .
Follow , I pray you .
Follow me .
Follow me .
Foot it featly here and there ;
For aye thy foot-licker .
For breathing in their faces ; beat the ground 
For bringing wood in slowly : I'll fall flat ;
For , certes , these are people of the island ,
For else his project dies to keep thee living .
For every trifle are they set upon me :
For he is , sure , i' the island .
For he's a bastard one ,had plotted with them 
For he's a spirit of persuasion , only 
For his advice , nor thought I had one . She 
For I am all the subjects that you have ,
For I can here disarm thee with this stick 
For it is you that have chalk'd forth the way 
For kissing of their feet ; yet always bending 
For learning me your language !
For mischiefs manifold and sorceries terrible 
For more assurance that a living prince 
For my poor son .
For , now they are oppress'd with travel , they 
For our case is as theirs .
For quiet days , fair issue and long life ,
For raising this sea-storm ?
For she had a tongue with a tang ,
For stale to catch these thieves .
For still 'tis beating in my mind ,your reason 
For that's my business to you ,that you three 
For the like loss I have her sovereign aid ,
For this , be sure , to-night thou shalt have cramps ,
For this one night ; which part of it I'll waste 
For thou must now know further .
For thou shalt find she will outstrip all praise ,
For 'tis a chronicle of day by day ,
For vainer hours and tutors not so careful .
For yet , ere supper time , must I perform 
For you are spell-stopp'd .
For you , most wicked sir , whom to call brother 
For your advancement ! Do you understand me ?
Foul weather ?
Four legs and two voices ; a most delicate monster ! His forward voice now is to speak well of his friend ; his backward voice is to utter foul speeches , and to detract . If all the wine in my bottle will recover him , I will help his ague . Come . Amen ! I will pour some in thy other mouth .
Four or five women once that tended me ?
Freedom , high-day ! high-day , freedom ! freedom ! high-day , freedom !
Fright me with urchin-shows , pitch me i' the mire ,
From bogs , fens , flats , on Prosper fall , and make him 
From eaves of reeds ; your charm so strongly works them ,
From me he got it : if thy greatness will ,
From me , the lord on't .
From Milan did supplant good Prospero ;
From mine own library with volumes that 
From strange to stranger .Say , how came you hither ?
From the still-vex'd Bermoothes ; there she's hid :
From toe to crown he'll fill our skins with pinches ;
From what a torment I did free thee ?
Full fathom five thy father lies ;
Fury , Fury ! there , Tyrant , there ! hark , hark !
Gentle breath of yours my sails 
Give me thy hand : I am sorry I beat thee ; but , while thou livest , keep a good tongue in thy head .
Give me thy hand : I do begin to have bloody thoughts .
Give me your hands :
Give us kind keepers , heavens ! What were these ?
Give us particulars of thy preservation ;
Go , charge my goblins that they grind their joints 
Goes upright with his carriage . How's the day ?
Go make thyself like a nymph of the sea : be subject 
Good boatswain , have care . Where's the master ? Play the men .
Good my lord , give me thy favour still :
Good , speak to the mariners : fall to't yarely , or we run ourselves aground : bestir , bestir .
Good things will strive to dwell with't .
Good warrant of .
Good wombs have borne bad sons .
Good , yet remember whom thou hast aboard .
Go quick away ; the story of my life 
Go sleep , and hear us .
Go to ; away !
Great Juno comes ; I know her by her gait .
Had I been any god of power , I would 
Had I plantation of this isle , my lord ,
Had never like executor . I forget :
Hag-seed , hence !
Ha , ha !
Ha , ha , ha !
Ha , ha , ha ! So you're paid .
Hail , many-colour'd messenger , that ne'er 
Hang , cur , hang ! you whoreson , insolent noisemaker , we are less afraid to be drowned than thou art .
Hark , hark !
Hark , hark ! I hear 
Hark in thine ear .
Hark ! now I hear them ,ding-dong , bell .
Hark ! they roar .
Hark , what thou else shalt do me .
Harmonious charmingly : May I be bold 
Has a new master Get a new man .
Hast strangely stood the test : here , afore Heaven ,
Hast thou no mouth by land ? What is the news ?
Hast thou not dropped from heaven ?
Hast thou , spirit ,
Hast thou , which art but air , a touch , a feeling 
Hath caused to belch up you ; and on this island 
Hath kept with thy remembrance .
Hath made his meal on thee ?
Have given you here a third of mine own life ,
Have I done since I went .
Have I given fire and rifted Jove's stout oak 
Have I in such a prison .
Have I lik'd several women ; never any 
Have I made shake ; and by the spurs pluck'd up 
Have I , thy schoolmaster , made thee more profit 
Have just our theme of woe ; but for the miracle ,
Have lost my daughter .
Have sunk the sea within the earth , or e'er 
Have wak'd their sleepers , op'd , and let them forth 
Having first seiz'd his books ; or with a log 
Having seen but him and Caliban : foolish wench !
Hear a foot fall : we now are near his cell .
Hear a little further ,
Heard you this , Gonzalo ?
Heavens keep him from these beasts !
Heavens thank you for't ! And now , I pray you , sir ,
Heaviness in me .
He came alive to land .
He could not miss it .
He'd sow't with nettle-seed .
He has brave utensils ,for so he calls them ,
He hath rais'd the wall , and houses too .
Heigh , my hearts ! cheerly , cheerly , my hearts ! yare , yare ! Take in the topsail . Tend to the master's whistle .Blow , till thou burst thy wind , if room enough !
He is as disproportion'd in his manners As in his shape .Go , sirrah , to my cell ;
He is drunk now : where had he wine ?
He'll be hang'd yet ,
He misses not much .
Hence , and bestow your luggage where you found it .
Hence ! hang not on my garments .
Her and her blind boy's scandal'd company 
He receives comfort like cold porridge .
Here comes a spirit of his , and to torment me 
Hereditary sloth instructs me .
Here in this island we arriv'd ; and here 
Here is everything advantageous to life .
Here , kiss the book 
Here , master : what cheer ?
Here on this grass-plot , in this very place ,
Here shall I die a-shore :
Here's neither bush nor shrub to bear off any weather at all , and another storm brewing ; I hear it sing i' the wind : yond same black cloud , yond huge one , looks like a foul bombard that would shed his liquor . If it should thunder as it did before , I know not where to hide my head : yond same cloud cannot choose but fall by pailfuls .What have we here ? a man or a fish ? Dead or alive ? A fish : he smells like a fish ; a very ancient and fish-like smell ; a kind of not of the newest Poor-John . A strange fish ! Were I in England now ,as once I was ,and had but this fish painted , not a holiday fool there but would give a piece of silver : there would this monster make a man ; any strange beast there makes a man . When they will not give a doit to relieve a lame beggar , they will lay out ten to see a dead Indian . Legg'd like a man ! and his fins like arms ! Warm , o' my troth ! I do now let loose my opinion , hold it no longer ; this is no fish , but an islander , that hath lately suffered by a thunderbolt .
Here : swear then , how thou escapedst .
Her waspish-headed son has broke his arrows ,
He's but a sot , as I am , nor hath not 
He's gentle , and not fearful .
He's gone .
He shall drink nought but brine ; for I'll not show him 
He's in his fit now and does not talk after the wisest . He shall taste of my bottle : if he have never drunk wine afore it will go near to remove his fit . If I can recover him , and keep him tame , I will not take too much for him : he shall pay for him that hath him , and that soundly .
He's safe for these three hours .
He that dies pays all debts : I defy thee .Mercy upon us !
He thinks me now incapable ; confederates ,
He was indeed the duke ; out o' the substitution ,
He will be talking .
He will chastise me .
Hey , Mountain , hey !
Highest queen of state ,
Him and his innocent child : for which foul deed 
Himself with his good arms in lusty stroke 
Him , that you term'd , sir , 'The good old lord Gonzalo :' 
His arms in this sad knot .
His brother , and yours , abide all three distracted ,
His mother was a witch ; and one so strong 
His tears run down his beard , like winter's drops 
His time doth take .
His word is more than the miraculous harp .
Holy Gonzalo , honourable man ,
Home , both in word and deed .Most cruelly 
Honest lord ,
Honour , riches , marriage-blessing ,
Hourly joys be still upon you !
How beauteous mankind is ! O brave new world ,
How came we ashore ?
How cam'st thou in this pickle ?
How didst thou 'scape ? How cam'st thou hither ? swear by this bottle , how thou cam'st hither . I escaped upon a butt of sack , which the sailors heaved overboard , by this bottle ! which I made of the bark of a tree with mine own hands , since I was cast ashore .
How does my bounteous sister ? Go with me 
How does thy honour ? Let me lick thy shoe . I'll not serve him , he is not valiant .
How fares my gracious sir ?
How fares the king and's followers ?
How fine my master is ! I am afraid 
How I may bear me here : my prime request ,
How lush and lusty the grass looks ! how green !
How many goodly creatures are there here !
How now ! moody ?
How now shall this be compassed ? Canst thou bring me to the party ?
How sharp the point of this remembrance is !
How ! the best ?
How thou cam'st here , thou may'st .
How thou hast met us here , who three hours since 
How to deny them , who t'advance , and who 
Humanely taken , are all lost , quite lost ;
I am a fool 
I am hers :
I am in my condition 
I am more serious than my custom : you 
I am out of patience .
I am right glad that he's so out of hope .
I am skill-less of ; but , by my modesty ,
I am the best of them that speak this speech ,
I am woe for't , sir .
I am your wife , if you will marry me ;
I assure you , Carthage .
I boarded the king's ship ; now on the beak ,
I cannot too much muse ,
I chose her when I could not ask my father 
I cried to dream again .
I did not give thee the he :Out o' your wits and hearing too ?A pox o' your bottle ! this can sack and drinking do .A murrain on your monster , and the devil take your fingers !
I did say so ,
I do ; and surely ,
I do believe it 
I do beseech thy greatness , give him blows ,
I do not know 
I do not lie .
I do not love to look on .
I do not , sir .
I do not think thou canst , for then thou wast not 
I do well believe your highness ; and did it to minister occasion to these gentlemen , who are of such sensible and nimble lungs that they always use to laugh at nothing .
I drink the air before me , and return 
I'd strive to tell you . We were dead of sleep ,
I ever saw so noble .
If but one of his pockets could speak , would it not say he lies ?
If by your art , my dearest father , you have 
I fear , a madness held me : this must crave ,
I fear , for ever : Milan and Naples have 
I fear you have done yourself some wrong : a word .
If he were that which now he's like , that's dead ;
If I did think , sir , I were well awake ,
If I have too austerely punish'd you ,
I find my zenith doth depend upon 
If in Naples 
If I should say I saw such islanders ,
If I speak true : if hollowly , invert 
I flam'd amazement : sometime I'd divide 
If not , I'll die your maid : to be your fellow 
If now I court not but omit , my fortunes 
If now 'twere fit to do't .At the first sight 
If of life you keep a care ,
If the ill spirit have so fair a house ,
If these be true spies which I wear in my head , here's a goodly sight .
If this might be a brother .
If this prove 
If thou beest a man , show thyself in thy likeness : if thou beest a devil , take't as thou list .
If thou beest Prospero ,
If thou beest Trinculo , come forth . I'll pull thee by the lesser legs : if any be Trinculo's legs , these are they . Thou art very Trinculo indeed ! How cam'st thou to be the siege of this moon-calf ? Can he vent Trinculos ?
If thou dost break her virgin knot before 
If thou more murmur'st , I will rend an oak 
If thou neglect'st , or dost unwillingly 
If thou remember'st aught ere thou cam'st here ,
If Venus or her son , as thou dost know ,
If you be maid or no ?
If you be pleas'd , retire into my cell 
If you but knew how you the purpose cherish 
If you'll sit down ,
I go , I go .
I had forgot that foul conspiracy 
I had rather crack my sinews , break my back ,
I have been in such a pickle since I saw you last that , I fear me , will never out of my bones : I shall not fear fly-blowing .
I have broke your hest to say so .
I have curs'd them without cause .
I have done nothing but in care of thee ,
I have ey'd with best regard , and many a time 
I have forsworn .
I have from their confines call'd to enact 
I have great comfort from this fellow : methinks he hath no drowning mark upon him ; his complexion is perfect gallows . Stand fast , good Fate , to his hanging ! make the rope of his destiny our cable , for our own doth little advantage ! If he be not born to be hanged , our case is miserable .
I have inly wept ,
I have left asleep : and for the rest o' the fleet 
I have no hope 
I have seen thee in her , and I do adore thee ; my mistress showed me thee , and thy dog , and thy bush .
I have with such provision in mine art 
I heard nothing .
I here abjure ; and , when I have requir'd 
I here could pluck his highness' frown upon you ,
I'll bear him no more sticks , but follow thee ,
I'll bear your logs the while . Pray , give me that ;
I'll beat him too .
I'll be his surety .
I'll believe both ;
I'll be thy second .
I'll bring you to your ship , and so to Naples ,
I'll carry it to the pile .
I'll come by Naples . Draw thy sword : one stroke 
I'll deliver all ;
I'll drown my book .
I'll fetch them , sir 
I'll fight their legions o'er .
I'll fish for thee , and get thee wood enough .
I'll follow , Stephano .
I'll kiss thy foot : I'll swear myself thy subject .
I'll manacle thy neck and feet together :
I'll seek him deeper than e'er plummet sounded ,
I'll set thee free for this !
I'll shew thee the best springs ; I'll pluck thee berries ;
I'll show thee every fertile inch o' the island ;
I'll swear upon that bottle , to be thy true subject ; for the liquor is not earthly .
I'll teach you how to flow .
I'll warrant him for drowning ; though the ship were no stronger than a nutshell , and as leaky as an unstanched wench .
I long 
I mean our preservation , few in millions 
I might call him 
Imprison'd , thou didst painfully remain 
I must be here confin'd by you ,
I must eat my dinner .
I must obey : his art is of such power ,
I must uneasy make , lest too light winning 
In a cowslip's bell I he :
In an odd angle of the isle and sitting ,
In a poor isle ; and all of us ourselves ,
Incens'd the seas and shores , yea , all the creatures ,
Incite them to quick motion ; for I must 
In country footing .
Indeed , the top of admiration ; worth 
In dignity , and for the liberal arts ,
I needs must rest me .
I ne'er again shall see her . O thou , mine heir 
In few , they hurried us aboard a bark ,
Infused with a fortitude from heaven ,
Inhabits here : some heavenly power guide us 
In mine own cell , till thou didst seek to violate 
I , not rememb'ring how I cried out then ,
Instinctively have quit it : there they hoist us ,
In such another trick . Go bring the rabble ,
In the dark backward and abysm of time ?
In their distractions : they now are in my power ;
In the line-grove which weather-fends your cell ;
In the same fashion as you gave in charge ,
In the very end of harvest !
In this bare island by your spell ;
In this hard rock , whiles you do keep from me 
In this last tempest . I perceive , these lords 
In this strange stare ?
Into a cloven pine ; within which rift 
Into something rich and strange .
In troops I have dispers'd them 'bout the isle .
In virtue than in vengeance : they being penitent ,
In what thou hadst to say : so , with good life 
In yours and my discharge .
I pray now , keep below .
I pray thee , mark me .
I pray thee , mark me ,that a brother should 
I prithee 
I prithee , let me bring thee where crabs grow ;
I prithee now , lead the way , without any more talking .Trinculo , the king and all our company else being drowned , we will inherit here .Here ; bear my bottle .Fellow Trinculo , we'll fill him by and by again .
I prithee , spare .
I prize above my dukedom .
I prophesied , if a gallows were on land ,
I rather think 
I ratify this my rich gift . O Ferdinand !
I remember 
Irreparable is the loss , and patience 
Is almost come .
Is a plain fish , and , no doubt , marketable .
I saw him beat the surges under him ,
I saw their weapons drawn :there was a noise ,
I say , Amen , Gonzalo !
I say , by sorcery he got this isle ;
I say to-night : no more .
Is common : every day some sailor's wife ,
Is daughter to this famous Duke of Milan ,
I shak'd you , sir , and cry'd ; as mine eyes open'd ,
I shall be pinch'd to death 
I shall laugh myself to death at this puppy-headed monster . A most scurvy monster ! I could find in my heart to beat him ,
I shall no more to sea , to sea ,
Is hard at study ; pray now , rest yourself :
I should have been a sore one then .
I should inform thee further . Lend thy hand ,
I should know that voice : it should be but he is drowned , and these are devils . O ! defend me .
I should report this now , would they believe me ?
I should sin 
Is , I know how to curse : the red plague rid you ,
Is it so brave a lass ?
Is much beyond our loss . Our hint of woe 
Is not , sir , my doublet as fresh as the first day I wore it ? I mean , in a sort .
Is not this Stephano , my drunken butler ?
Is rounded with a sleep .Sir , I am vex'd :
Is she the goddess that hath sever'd us ,
Is so possess'd with guilt : come from thy ward ,
Is the king's ship ; in the deep nook , where once 
Is there more toil ? Since thou dost give me pains ,
Is the third man that e'er I saw ; the first 
Is tight and yare and bravely rigg'd as when 
Is to make midnight mushrooms ; that rejoice 
It carries a brave form :but 'tis a spirit .
I tender to thy hand : all thy vexations 
It goes on , I see ,
I thank my noble lord . Wilt thou be pleas'd 
I thank thee : Ariel , come !
I thank thee for that jest ; here's a garment for't : wit shall not go unrewarded while I am king of this country : 'Steal by line and level ,' is an excellent pass of pate ; there's another garment for't .
I thank thee , master .
I' the afternoon to sleep : there thou may'st brain him ,
I' the commonwealth I would by contraries 
I' the filthy-mantled pool beyond your cell ,
I the name of something holy , sir , why stand you 
I therein do forget .
I think he will carry this island home in his pocket , and give it his son for an apple .
I thought to have told thee of it ; but I fear'd 
I , thus neglecting worldly ends , all dedicated 
It is a comforter .
It is a sleepy language , and thou speak'st 
It is foul weather in us all , good sir ,
It is the quality o' the climate .
It must needs be of subtle , tender , and delicate temperance .
I told you , sir , they were red-hot with drinking ;
I took him to be killed with a thunderstroke . But art thou not drowned , Stephano ? I hope now thou art not drowned . Is the storm overblown ? I hid me under the dead mooncalf's gaberdine for fear of the storm . And art thou living , Stephano ? O Stephano ! two Neapolitans 'scaped !
It seldom visits sorrow ; when it doth 
It should the good ship so have swallow'd and 
It sounds no more ;and sure , it waits upon 
It struck mine ear most terribly .
It would become me 
It would control my dam's god , Setebos ,
I warrant you , sir ;
I will be correspondent to command ,
I will discase me , and myself present ,
I will discharge thee .
I will fetch off my bottle , though I be o'er ears for my labour .
I will have none on't : we shall lose our time ,
I will kneel to him .
I will requite you with as good a thing ;
I will resist such entertainment till 
I will stand to and feed ,
I will tell no tales .
I would my valiant master would destroy thee ;
I would not for the world .
I would not so !and would no more endure 
I would with such perfection govern , sir ,
Juno and Ceres whisper seriously ,
Juno sings her blessings on you .
Just as you left them : all prisoners , sir ,
Kill the still-closing waters , as diminish 
Knowing I lov'd my books , he furnish'd me ,
Know thine own meaning , but wouldst gabble like 
Know thus far forth .
Lay her a-hold , a-hold ! Set her two courses ; off to sea again ; lay her off .
Lead away .
Lead , monster ; we'll follow .I would I could see this taborer ! he lays it on . Wilt come ?
Lead off this ground , and let's make further search 
Leave not a rack behind . We are such stuff 
Leave your crisp channels , and on this green land 
Lest I might anger thee .
Let grief and sorrow still embrace his heart 
Let it alone , thou fool ; it is but trash .
Let it be to-night ;
Let liberty make use of ; space enough 
Let me embrace thine age ; whose honour cannot 
Let me live here ever :
Let me remember thee what thou hast promis'd 
Let's all sink wi' the king .
Let's take leave of him .
Letters should not be known ; riches , poverty ,
Let them be hunted soundly . At this hour 
Let us be jocund : will you troll the catch 
Let us not burden our remembrances 
Let your indulgence set me free .
Lie at my mercy all mine enemies :
Lie there , my art .Wipe thou thine eyes ; have comfort .
Lie tumbling in my bare-foot way and mount 
Like a good parent , did beget of him 
Like bulls , or rather hons ; did't not wake you ?
Like poison given to work a great time after ,
Lingering perdition ,worse than any death 
Lo , how he mocks me ! wilt thou let him , my lord ?
Lo , lo , again ! bite him to death , I prithee .
Long continuance , and increasing ,
Long live Gonzalo !
Lo now ! lo !
Look , he's winding up the watch of his wit ; by and by it will strike .
Look , thou be true ; do not give dalliance 
Lord , how it looks about ! Believe me , sir ,
'Lord' quoth he !that a monster should be such a natural !
Lov'd Mall , Meg , and Marian and Margery ,
Made such a sinner of his memory ,
Make holiday : your rye-straw hats put on ,
Make not too rash a trial of him , for 
Makes this place Paradise .
Make the prize light .
Make us strange stuff .
Many , nay , almost any .
Mark but the badges of these men , my lords ,
Mark his condition and the event ; then tell me 
Married my daughter there ! for , coming thence ,
Marry , will I ; kneel , and repeat it : I will stand , and so shall Trinculo .
Mars's hot minion is return'd again ;
Marvellous sweet music !
Master of this design ,did give us ; with 
May know if you remain upon this island ;
May now provoke them to .
Me and thy crying self .
Measure us back to Naples ?Keep in Tunis ,
Melting the darkness , so their rising senses 
Mercy itself and frees all faults .
Merrily , merrily shall I live now 
Methinks I do .
Methinks , our garments are now as fresh as when we put them on first in Afric , at the marriage of the king's fair daughter Claribel to the King of Tunis .
Methought the billows spoke and told me of it ;
Might I but through my prison once a day 
Mine enemy has more power .
Mine eyes , even sociable to the show of thine ,
Mine honour into lust , to take away 
Mine would , sir , were I human .
Miranda .O my father !
Monster , come , put some lime upon your fingers , and away with the rest .
Monster , I do smell all horse-piss ; at which my nose is in great indignation .
Monster , I will kill this man : his daughter and I will be king and queen ,save our graces ! and Trinculo and thyself shall be viceroys . Dost thou like the plot , Trinculo ?
Monster , lay-to your fingers : help to bear this away where my hogshead of wine is , or I'll turn you out of my kingdom . Go to ; carry this .
Monster , your fairy , which you say is a harmless fairy , has done little better than played the Jack with us .
Moon-calf , speak once in thy life , if thou beest a good moon-calf .
More that I may call men than you , good friend ,
More to know 
More widows in them of this business' making ,
Most busiest when I do it .
Most often do so near the bottom run 
Most sure , the goddess 
Much business appertaining .
Much feater than before ; my brother's servants 
Mum then and no more .
Must ask my child forgiveness !
Must be so too , if heed me ; which to do 
Must by us both be spent most preciously .
Must fill , or else my project fails ,
Must know and own ; this thing of darkness I 
Must rectify our knowledge .
My affections 
My Ariel , chick ,
My bosky acres , and my unshrubb'd down ,
My brave spirit !
My brother and thy uncle , call'd Antonio ,
My charms crack not ; my spirits obey , and time 
My charms I'll break , their senses I'll restore ,
My dear son Ferdinand .
My dukedom of thee , which , perforce , I know ,
My dukedom since you have given me again ,
My father's loss , the weakness which I feel ,
My father's of a better nature , sir ,
My foot my tutor ?Put thy sword up , traitor ;
My heart fly to your service ; there resides ,
My husband then ?
My language ! heavens !
My liberty .
My lord , it shall be done .
My lord Sebastian ,
My man-monster hath drowned his tongue in sack : for my part , the sea cannot drown me ; I swam , ere I could recover the shore , five-and-thirty leagues , off and on , by this light . Thou shalt be my lieutenant , monster , or my standard .
My master through his art foresees the danger 
My mistress , dearest ;
My old bones ache : here's a maze trod indeed ,
My present fancies .
Myself dispos'd to sleep .
Myself were mudded in that oozy bed 
My son is lost ; and , in my rate , she too ,
My spirits , as in a dream , are all bound up .
My strong imagination sees a crown 
My tale provokes that question . Dear , they durst not ,
My tricksy spirit !
My true preserver , and a loyal sir 
Nay , good , be patient .
Nay , good my lord , be not angry .
Never till this day 
No ;
No .
No .
No , as I am a man .
No better than the earth he lies upon ,
Noble Sebastian ,
No harm .
No ; he doth but mistake the truth totally .
No , it begins again .
No , I warrant you ; I will not adventure my discretion so weakly . Will you laugh me asleep , for I am very heavy ?
No longer for my flatterer : he is drown'd 
No marrying 'mong his subjects ?
No matter , since 
No , monster , not I .
No more amazement . Tell your piteous heart 
No more dams I'll make for fish ,
No , my dearest love ,
None , man ; all idle ; whores and knaves .
None that I more love than myself . You are a counsellor : if you can command these elements to silence , and work the peace of the present , we will not hand a rope more ; use your authority : if you cannot , give thanks you have lived so long , and make yourself ready in your cabin for the mischance of the hour , if it so hap .Cheerly , good hearts !Out of our way , I say .
No , noble mistress ; 'tis fresh morning with me 
No , no ; he's gone .
No , not so much perdition as an hair ,
No occupation ; all men idle , all ;
No , pray thee !
No , precious creature :
Nor can imagination form a shape ,
Nor fetch in firing 
Nor go neither : but you'll lie , like dogs ; and yet say nothing neither .
Nor I : my spirits are nimble .
Nor lead me , like a firebrand , in the dark 
Nor scrape trenchering , nor wash dish ,
Nor tackle , sail , nor mast ; the very rats 
No , sir .
No sovereignty ,
No sweet aspersion shall the heavens let fall 
Not a frown further . Go , release them , Ariel .
Not a hair perish'd ;
Not a relation for a breakfast nor 
Not a soul 
Nothing of him that doth fade ,
Not I .
No tongue ! all eyes ! be silent .
Not only with what my revenue yielded ,
Not since widow Dido's time .
No use of metal , corn , or wine , or oil ;
Now , all the blessings 
Now come , my Ariel ! bring a corollary ,
Now does my project gather to a head :
No , wench ; it eats and sleeps , and hath such senses 
Now , forward with your tale .Prithee stand further off .
Now 'gins to bite the spirits .I do beseech you 
Now , good angels 
Now I arise :
Now in the waist , the deck , in every cabin ,
Now my charms are all o'erthrown ,
Now my dear lady , hath mine enemies 
No wonder , sir ;
Now the condition .
Now useless , boil'd within thy skull ! There stand ,
Now would I give a thousand furlongs of sea for an acre of barren ground ; long heath , brown furze , any thing . The wills above be done ! but I would fain die a dry death .
Nurture can never stick ; on whom my pains ,
O !
O , a cherubin 
Obey and be attentive . Canst thou remember 
O brave monster ! lead the way .
O ! but one word .
O dear father !
O'erpriz'd all popular rate , in my false brother 
O'erstunk their feet .
O'er whom I give thee power , here to this place :
Of a glad father compass thee about !
Of all the world I lov'd , and to him put 
Of anything the image tell me , that 
Of a whole herd of lions .
Of ever-angry bears : it was a torment 
Of every creature's best .
Of excellent dumb discourse .
Of her society 
Of his bones are coral made 
Of homage and I know not how much tribute ,
Of its own kind , all foison , all abundance ,
Of my instruction hast thou nothing bated 
Of Naples and of Milan ! what strange fish 
Of officer and office , set all hearts i' the state 
O , forgive me my sins !
Of roaring , shrieking , howling , jingling chains ,
Of sulphurous roaring the most mighty Neptune 
Of Sycorax , toads , beetles , bats , light on you !
Of that there's none , or little .
Of the beast Caliban , and his confederates 
Of thee , my dear one ! thee , my daughter !who 
Of their afflictions , and shall not myself ,
Of the king's ship 
Of the salt deep ,
Of these our dear-beloved solemniz'd ;
Of two most rare affections ! Heavens rain grace 
Of wheat , rye , barley , vetches , oats , and peas ;
Of whence I am : nor that I am more better 
Of whom so often I have heard renown ,
Of whom your swords are temper'd , may as well 
O , good sir ! I do .
O heaven ! O earth ! bear witness to this sound ,
O heavens ! that they were living both in Naples ,
Oh ho ! Oh ho !would it had been done !
O , ho , monster ! we know what belongs to a frippery .O king Stephano !
O ! if a virgin ,
O , it is monstrous ! monstrous !
O king Stephano ! O peer ! O worthy Stephano ! look , what a wardrobe here is for thee !
Old lord , I cannot blame thee ,
O look , sir ! look , sir ! here are more of us .
O most dear mistress ,
O ! my heart bleeds 
Once in a month , recount what thou hast been ,
One dowle that's in my plume ; my fellow-ministers 
One of my sex ; no woman's face remember ,
One of their kind , that relish all as sharply ,
One spirit to command : they all do hate him 
One : tell .
One thing or other : when thou didst not , savage ,
One word more : I charge thee 
On that which breeds between them !
On the bat's back I do fly 
On the bless'd lovers .
On the curl'd clouds : to thy strong bidding task 
On their sustaining garments not a blemish ,
On the sixth hour ; at which time , my lord ,
On whom these airs attend !Vouchsafe , my prayer 
O ! out of that 'no hope 
Open-ey'd Conspiracy 
Or as 'twere perfumed by a fen .
Or be not , I'll not swear .
Or blessed was't we did ?
Or cut his wezand with thy knife . Remember 
Or docks , or mallows .
Or e'er your pulse twice beat .
Or else good night your vow !
Or else new form'd 'em : having both the key 
Or else our spell is marr'd .
Or it hath drawn me rather ,but 'tis gone .
Or Night kept chain'd below .
Or sent to Naples Let me not ,
Or should have spoke ere this . Look down , you gods ,
Or some enchanted trifle to abuse me ,
Or stole it , rather .
Or that for which I live ; whom once again 
Or that we quit this place : let's draw our weapons .
O Setebos ! these be brave spirits , indeed .
O Stephano ! hast any more of this ?
O' the dreadful thunder-claps , more momentary 
O , the heavens !
O the heavens !
O ! touch me not : I am not Stephano , but a cramp .
O ! 'twas a din to fright a monster's ear ,
Our frustrate search on land . Well , let him go .
Our human generation you shall find 
Our king and company : the next , our ship ,
Our revels now are ended . These our actors ,
Our royal , good , and gallant ship ; our master 
Our sorrow with our comfort .
Our worser genius can , shall never melt 
Out of his charity ,who being then appointed 
Out of my way , unless he bid 'em ; but 
Out of the dukedom , and confer fair Milan ,
Out of this fearful country !
Out of thy sleep . What is it thou didst say ?
Out o the moon , I do assure thee : I was the man in the moon , when time was .
Out three years old .
O ! was she so ? I must ,
O ! widow Dido ; ay , widow Dido .
O , woe the day !
O , wonder !
Pardon , master ;
Passion as they , be kindlier mov'd than thou art ?
Past the mid season .
Perchance he will not mind me .
Perform'd , my Ariel ; a grace it had , devouring :
Perform'd to point the tempest that I bade thee ?
Plants with goodly burden bowing ;
Please you , sir ,
Plunged in the foaming brine and quit the vessel ,
Point to rich ends . This my mean task 
Poor worm ! thou art infected :
Praise in departing .
Pray , set it down and rest you : when this burns ,
Pray you , tread softly , that the blind mole may not 
Presently ?
Preserve the king !
Prithee , do not turn me about : my stomach is not constant .
Prithee , my king , be quiet . Seest thou here ,
Prithee , no more : thou dost talk nothing to me .
Prithee , peace .
Prithee , peace .
Prithee , say on :
Proceed .
Professes to persuade ,the king , his son's alive ,
Prospero my lord shall know what I have done :
Put off that gown , Trinculo ; by this hand , I'll have that gown .
Put the wild waters in this roar , allay them .
Rather than want a spirit : appear , and pertly .
Ready to drop upon me ; that , when I wak'd 
Receiv'd a second life ; and second father 
Refusing her grand hests , she did confine thee ,
Remember , I have done thee worthy service ;
Revenge it on him ,for , I know , thou dar'st ;
Rich garments , linens , stuffs , and necessaries ,
Rich scarf to my proud earth ; why hath thy queen 
Safely in harbour 
Save for the son that she did litter here ,
Save , from my glass , mine own ; nor have I seen 
Save his majesty !
Saw I him touch'd with anger so distemper'd .
Say again , where didst thou leave these varlets ?
Says it is past her cure .
'Scape being drunk for want of wine .
Scarcity and want shall shun you ;
Sea-nymphs hourly ring his knell :
Sea-water shalt thou drink ; thy food shall be 
Seems to cry out , 'How shall that Claribel 
Seem to besiege and make his bold waves tremble ,
Servant-monster ! the folly of this island ! They say there's but five upon this isle : we are three of them ; if th' other two be brained like us , the state totters .
Set Caliban and his companions free ;
Set roaring war : to the dread-rattling thunder 
Shake it off . Come on ;
Shake off slumber , and beware 
Shall be my precedent : as thou got'st Milan ,
Shall forth at vast of night , that they may work 
Shall free thee from the tribute which thou pay'st ,
Shall hoodwink this mischance : therefore speak softly ;
Shall I twice lose .
Shall make me chide thee , if not hate thee . What !
Shalt have the air at freedom : for a little ,
She lov'd not the savour of tar nor of pitch ,
She said thou wast my daughter ; and thy father 
She that is Queen of Tums ; she that dwells 
Shortly shall all my labours end , and thou 
Should become kings of Naples ? O , rejoice 
Should not upbraid our course . For all the rest ,
Should presently extirpate me and mine 
Show thee a jay's nest and instruct thee how 
Side-stitches that shall pen thy breath up ; urchins 
Silence ! one word more 
Silver ! there it goes , Silver !
Since I came to this isle : and in the morn 
Since I have my dukedom got 
Sir ,
Sir , all this service 
Sir , are not you my father ?
Sir , have pity :
Sir , he may live :
Sir , I invite your highness and your train 
Sir , in Argier .
Sir , most heedfully .
Sir , my liege ,
Sir , she is mortal ;
Sir , we were talking that our garments seem now as fresh as when we were at Tunis at the marriage of your daughter , who is now queen .
Sir , you may thank yourself for this great loss ,
Sit still , and hear the last of our sea-sorrow .
Sit then , and talk with her , she is thine own .
So dear the love my people bore me , nor set 
So dry he was for sway ,wi' the king of Naples 
Soft , sir : one word more 
So full of valour that they smote the air 
So glad of this as they , I cannot be ,
So have we all , of joy ; for our escape 
So his mind cankers . I will plague them all ,
So is mine .Do you hear , monster ? If I should take a displeasure against you , look you ,
So is she heir of Naples ; 'twixt which regions 
So is the dearest of the loss .
So , king , go safely on to seek thy son .
Some few odd lads that you remember not .
Some food we had and some fresh water that 
Some god o' th' island . Sitting on a bank ,
Some heavenly music ,which even now I do ,
Some subtilties o' the isle , that will not let you 
Something too wildly and my father's precepts 
Some thousands of these logs and pile them up ,
Sometime like apes , that mow and chatter at me 
Sometimes a thousand twangling instruments 
Some tricks of desperation . All but mariners ,
Some vanity of mine art : it is my promise ,
Some wanton charm upon this man and maid ,
So perfect and so peerless , are created 
So rare a wonder'd father and a wise ,
So safely order'd , that there is no soul 
So , slave ; hence !
So they are :
Sounds and sweet airs , that give delight , and hurt not .
Sour-ey'd disdain and discord shall bestrew 
Spirit ,
Spirits to enforce , art to enchant ;
Spirits , which by mine art 
Spring come to you at the farthest 
Stand further .Come , proceed .
Stand to and do as we .
Stephano !
Stephano !if thou beest Stephano , touch me , and speak to me ; for I am Trinculo :be not afeard thy good friend Trinculo .
Subject his coronet to his crown , and bend 
Such shapes , such gesture , and such sound , expressing ,
Summon'd me hither , to this short-grass'd green ?
Supposing that they saw the king's ship wrack'd ,
Swam ashore , man , like a duck : I can swim like a duck , I'll be sworn .
Swears he will shoot no more , but play with sparrows ,
Sweet lord , you play me false .
Sweet , now , silence !
Sword , pike , knife , gun , or need of any engine ,
Take the ear strangely .
Take with you your companions : as you look 
Tell me , heavenly bow ,
Tell not me :when the butt is out , we will drink water ; not a drop before : therefore bear up , and board 'em .Servant-monster , drink to me .
Temperance was a delicate wench .
Tender your own good fortune ?
Ten leagues beyond man's life ; she that from Naples 
Ten times more gentle than her father's crabbed ,
Th' affliction of my mind amends , with which ,
Than bees that made them .
Than he appears by speech : this is unwonted ,
Thank you . Wondrous heavy .
Than now they are . There be that can rule Naples 
Than other princes can , that have more time 
Than pard , or cat o' mountain .
Than Prospero , master of a full poor cell ,
Than we bring men to comfort them : the fault's 
Than you may call to comfort you , for I 
Than you should such dishonour undergo ,
That are of suppler joints , follow them swiftly 
That beasts shall tremble at thy din .
That burn by day and night : and then I lov'd thee 
That , calf-like , they my lowing follow'd through 
That could control the moon , make flows and ebbs ,
That deep and dreadful organ-pipe , pronounc'd 
That doth not wish you joy !
That e'er I sigh'd for : pity move my father 
That Ferdinand is drown'd ?
That has such people in't !
That hath to instrument this lower world 
That he's undrown'd .
That hour destroy us ?
That I am Prospero and that very duke 
That , if I then had wak'd after long sleep ,
That if you now beheld them , your affections 
That is thy charge : then to the elements 
That my remembrance warrants . Had I not 
That now hath seiz'd them ; why , they were no worse 
That now lie foul and muddy . Not one of them 
That our garments , being , as they were , drenched in the sea , hold notwithstanding their freshness and glosses ; being rather new-dyed than stain'd with salt water .
That profit us .What ho ! slave ! Caliban !
That's a brave god and bears celestial liquor :
That shall be by and by : I remember the story .
That's more to me than my wetting : yet this is your harmless fairy , monster .
That's most certain .
That's my noble master !
That's not the tune .
That sort was well fish'd for .
That stand 'twixt me and Milan , candied be they ,
That's verily . 'Tis best we stand upon our guard ,
That swear'st grace o'erboard , not an oath on shore ?
That the earth owes :I hear it now above me .
That there are unicorns ; that in Arabia 
That they devour their reason , and scarce think 
That this lives in thy mind ? What seest thou else 
That thou attend me . Thou dost here usurp 
That works him strongly .
That would not bless our Europe with your daughter ,
That wrings mine eyes to 't .
That yet looks on me , or would know me .Ariel ,
That you , his friend , are in ; and sends me forth 
That you resolv'd to effect .
That you shall hate it both : therefore take heed ,
The air breathes upon us here most sweetly .
The beauty of his daughter ; he himself 
The best is past .Brother , my lord the duke ,
The best news is that we have safely found 
The bigger bulk it shows . Hence , bashful cunning !
The cloud-capp'd towers , the gorgeous palaces ,
The clouds methought would open and show riches 
The cockerel .
The creatures that were mine , I say , or chang'd 'em ,
The devil speaks in him .
The direful spectacle of the wrack , which touch'd 
The ditty does remember my drown'd father .
The dropsy drown this fooll what do you mean 
The dukedom , yet unbow'd ,alas , poor Milan !
The Duke of Milan ,
The edge of that day's celebration 
The flesh-fly blow my mouth .Hear my soul speak :
The foul witch Sycorax , who with age and envy 
The fraughting souls within her .
The fresh-brook muscles , wither'd roots and husks 
The fresh springs , brine-pits , barren place , and fertile .
The fringed curtains of thine eye advance ,
The gates of Milan ; and , i' the dead of darkness ,
The government I cast upon my brother ,
The ground indeed is tawny .
The gunner and his mate ,
The harmony of their tongues hath into bondage 
The honour of my child .
The hour's now come ,
Their clearer reason .O good Gonzalo !
Their eyes do offices of truth , their words 
Their manners are more gentle-kind than of 
Their pricks at my foot-fall ; sometime am I 
Their proper selves . You fools ! I and my fellows 
Their several kinds have done . My high charms work ,
The ivy which had hid my princely trunk ,
The jewel in my dower ,I would not wish 
The king and prince at prayers ! let us assist them ,
The king and queen there ! that they were , I wish 
The king , my father wrack'd .
The king's son have I landed by himself ;
The latter end of his commonwealth forgets the beginning .
The manage of my state ; as at that time ,
The man i' th' moon's too slow till new-born chins 
The mariners all under hatches stow'd ;
The mariners , say how thou hast dispos'd ,
The masters of some merchant and the merchant ,
The master , the swabber , the boatswain and I ,
The means that dusky Dis my daughter got ,
The mind that I do ! what a sleep were this 
The ministers for the purpose hurried thence 
The mistress which I serve quickens what's dead 
The most opportune place , the strong'st sug gestion 
Then all a-fire with me : the king's son , Ferdinand ,
The name of Prosper : it did bass my trespass .
The name thou ow'st not ; and hast put thyself 
Then , as my gift and thine own acquisition 
The next advantage 
Then let us both be sudden .
Then meet , and join : Jove's lightnings , the precursors 
The noontide sun , call'd forth the mutinous winds ,
Then say , if they be true .This mis-shapen knave ,
Then tell me 
Then to sea , boys , and let her go hang .
The old cock .
The pine and cedar : graves at my command 
The pine , and let thee out .
The powers , delaying , not forgetting , have 
The Queen of Naples .
There are yet missing of your company 
There be some sports are painful , and their labour 
There dancing up to the chins , that the foul lake 
Therefore , my lord ,
Therefore my son i' th' ooze is bedded ; and 
There I couch when owls do cry .
There is not only disgrace and dishonour in that , monster , but an infinite loss .
There is one tree , the ph nix' throne ; one ph nix 
There is some space .
There shalt thou find the mariners asleep 
There , sir , stop :
There's meaning in thy snores .
There's no harm done .
There's nothing ill can dwell in such a temple :
There's something else to do : hush , and be mute ,
The rest o' th' island .
There's wood enough within .
These are not natural events ; they strengthen 
These be fine things an if they be not sprites .
These happen'd accidents ; till when , be cheerful ,
These three have robb'd me ; and this demidevil ,
The setting of thine eye and cheek proclaim 
The sky , it seems , would pour down stinking pitch ,
The sole drift of my purpose doth extend 
The solemn temples , the great globe itself ,
The sound is going away : let's follow it , and after do our work .
The spirit torments me : O !
The stomach of my sense . Would I had never 
The strain of strutting Chanticleer 
The strangeness of this business : at pick'd leisure 
The strangeness of your story put 
The sun will set , before I shall discharge 
The surge most swoln that met him : his bold head 
The trumpery in my house , go bring it hither ,
The truth you speak doth lack some gentleness 
The union of your bed with weeds so loathly 
The very instant that I saw you did 
The very minute bids thee ope thine ear ;
The very virtue of compassion in thee ,
The visitor will not give him o'er so .
The washing of ten tides !
The watch-dogs bark :
The white-cold virgin snow upon my heart 
The whole butt , man : my cellar is in a rock by the seaside , where my wine is hid . How now , moon-calf ! how does thine ague ?
The wild waves whist ,
The winds did sing it to me ; and the thunder ,
The wrack of all my friends , or this man's threats ,
The wronged Duke of Milan , Prospero .
The yards , and boresprit , would I flame distinctly ,
They are both in either's powers : but this swift business 
They are inclin'd to do so .
They cannot budge till your release . The king ,
They dropp'd , as by a thunder-stroke . What might ,
They fell together all , as by consent ;
They have bereft ; and do pronounce , by me ,
They have changed eyes :delicate Ariel ,
They have left their viands behind ; for we have stomachs .
They'll take suggestion as a cat laps milk ;
They'll tell the clock to any business that 
They vanish'd strangely .
They would not take her life . Is not this true ?
Thine own for ever , and I , thy Caliban ,
This airy charm is for , I'll break my staff ,
This ancient morsel , this Sir Prudence , who 
This blue-ey'd hag was hither brought with child 
This cell's my court : here have I few attendants 
This deity in my bosom : twenty consciences ,
This fellow could not drown .Now , blasphemy ,
This is a most majestic vision , and 
This is a scurvy tune too : but here's my comfort .
This is as strange a maze as e'er men trod ;
This is a strange repose , to be asleep 
This is a strange thing as e'er I look'd on .
This is a very scurvy tune to sing at a man's funeral :
This island's mine , by Sycorax my mother ,
This isle with Calibans .
This is no mortal business , nor no sound 
This is some monster of the isle with four legs , who hath got , as I take it , an ague . Where the devil should he learn our language ? I will give him some relief , if it be but for that : if I can recover him and keep him tame and get to Naples with him , he's a present for any emperor that ever trod on neat's-leather .
This is strange : your father's in some passion 
This is the mouth o' the cell : no noise , and enter .
This is the tune of our catch , played by the picture of Nobody .
This King of Naples , being an enemy 
This lady makes him to me .
This music crept by me upon the waters ,
This Tunis , sir , was Carthage .
This visitation shows it .
This was well done , my bird .
This wide-chapp'd rascal ,would thou might'st lie drowning ,
This will I tell my master .
This will prove a brave kingdom to me , where I shall have my music for nothing .
This wooden slavery than to suffer 
Those are pearls that were his eyes :
Thou and thy meaner fellows your last service 
Thou art inclin'd to sleep ; 'tis a good dulness ,
Thou call'dst me up at midnight to fetch dew 
Thou didst prevent me ; I had peopled else 
Thou dost ; and think'st it much to tread the ooze 
Thou dost me yet but little hurt ; thou wilt anon , I know it by thy trembling : now Prosper works upon thee .
Thou dost snore distinctly :
Thou earth , thou ! speak .
Though every drop of water swear against it ,
Though fools at home condemn them .
Though the seas threaten , they are merciful :
Though this island seem to be desert ,
. Though thou canst swim like a duck , thou art made like a goose .
Though thou didst learn , had that in't which good natures 
Thought is free .
Though with their high wrongs I am struck to the quick ,
Thou hadst , and more , Miranda . But how is it 
Thou hast done well , fine Ariel !
Thou hast howl'd away twelve winters .
Thou hast said well ; for some of you there present 
Thou hast . Where was she born ? speak ; tell me .
Thou hest , most ignorant monster : I am in case to justle a constable . Why , thou deboshed fish thou , was there ever a man a coward that hath drunk so much sack as I to-day ? Wilt thou tell a monstrous lie , being but half a fish and half a monster ?
Thou know'st , was banish'd : for one thing she did 
Thou let'st thy fortune sleep die rather ; wink'st 
Thou liest .
Thou liest .
Thou liest , malignant thing ! Hast thou forgot 
Thou liest ; thou canst not .
Thou liest , thou jesting monkey thou ;
Thou mak'st me merry : I am full of pleasure .
Thou most lying slave ,
Thou must restore .
Thou pardon me my wrongs .But how should Prospero 
Thou poisonous slave , got by the devil himself 
Thou'rt pinch'd for't now , Sebastian .Flesh and blood ,
Thou shalt be as free 
Thou shalt be lord of it and I'll serve thee .
Thou shalt ere long be free .
Thou strok'dst me , and mad'st much of me ; wouldst give me 
Thou think'st there is no more such shapes as he ,
Thou wast , that did preserve me ! Thou didst smile ,
Thou wert but a lost monster .
Thou wondrous man .
Through all the signiories it was the first ,
Through forth-rights , and meanders ! by your patience ,
Thus , sir :
Thy banks with pioned and twilled brims ,
Thy brother was a furtherer in the act ;
Thy case , dear friend ,
Thy dukedom I resign , and do entreat 
Thy father was the Duke of Milan and 
Thy grace shall have it .
Thy mother was a piece of virtue , and 
Thy nerves are in their infancy again ,
Thy rankest fault ; all of them ; and require 
Thy shape invisible retain thou still :
Thy thoughts I cleave to . What's thy pleasure ?
Thy turfy mountains , where live nibbling sheep ,
Till half an hour hence .
Till Hymen's torch be lighted ; but in vain :
Till thou dost hear me call .
'Tis as impossible that he's undrown'd 
'Tis a villain , sir ,
'Tis far off ;
'Tis new to thee .
'Tis time 
'Tis true my brother's daughter's Queen of Tunis ;
To act her earthy and abhorr'd commands ,
To answer other business . Shrug'st thou , malice ?
To answer thy best pleasure ; be't to fly ,
To an unsettled fancy , cure thy brains ,
To bate me a full year .
To be inclin'd my way !
To be the lord on't . No more yet of this ;
To bless this twain , that they may prosperous be ,
To closeness and the bettering of my mind 
To clust'ring filberts , and sometimes I'll get thee 
To come and sport ; her peacocks fly amain :
To credit his own lie ,he did believe 
To cry to the sea that roar'd to us ; to sigh 
To do me business in the veins o' th' earth 
To dote thus on such luggage ? Let's along ,
To enter human hearing , from Argier ,
To every article .
To every eyeball else . Go , take this shape ,
To excel the golden age 
To fall it on Gonzalo .
To feed my innocent people .
To give him annual tribute , do him homage ;
To have my pardon , trim it handsomely .
To have no screen between this part he play'd 
To hearken once again the suit I made thee ?
To hear thee speak of Naples . He does hear me ;
To hear the solemn curfew ; by whose aid ,
To hear the story of your life , which must 
To him thou follow'st , I will pay thy graces 
To lay upon the damn'd , which Sycorax 
Told thee no lies , made no mistakings , serv'd 
To make an earthquake : sure it was the roar 
To make cold nymphs chaste crowns ; and thy broom groves ,
To make me slave to it ; and for your sake 
To make the dear loss , have I means much weaker 
To make this contract grow ; but barren hate ,
To me inveterate , hearkens my brother's suit ;
To most ignoble stooping .
To my poor cell , where you shall take your rest 
To name the bigger light , and how the less ,
To no sight but thine and mine ; invisible 
Took pains to make thee speak , taught thee each hour 
Too much the rein : the strongest oaths are straw 
Tooth'd briers , sharp furzes , pricking goss and thorns ,
To run upon the sharp wind of the north ,
To see a goodlier man .
To snare the nimble marmozet ; I'll bring thee 
To still my beating mind .
To swim , to dive into the fire , to ride 
To take my life : two of these fellows you 
To the dulling of my spirits : sit down , and rest .
To the fire i' the blood : be more abstemious ,
To the king's ship , invisible as thou art :
To the most of men this is a Caliban 
To the perpetual wink for aye might put 
To the shore , that o'er his wave-worn basis bow'd ,
To the syllable .
To the winds whose pity , sighing back again ,
To think but nobly of my grandmother :
To think o' the teen that I have turn'd you to ,
To think these spirits ?
To trash for over-topping ; new created 
Towards their project . Then I beat my tabor ;
To weep at what I am glad of .
To what tune pleas'd his ear ; that now he was 
To whom I am subdued , are but light to me ,
To work mine end upon their senses that 
Trebles thee o'er .
Trinculo , if you trouble him any more in his tale , by this hand , I will supplant some of your teeth .
Trinculo , keep a good tongue in your head : if you prove a mutineer , the next tree ! The poor monster's my subject , and he shall not suffer indignity .
Trinculo , run into no further danger : interrupt the monster one word further , and , by this hand , I'll turn my mercy out o' doors and make a stock-fish of thee .
True :
True ; save means to live .
Tunis was never graced before with such a paragon to their queen .
'Twas a sweet marriage , and we prosper well in our return .
'Twas you we laugh'd at .
Twelve year since , Miranda , twelve year since ,
'Twill weep for having wearied you . My father 
'Twould put me to my slipper ; but I feel not 
Under my burden groan'd ; which rais'd in me 
Under the blossom that hangs on the bough 
Under the hatches ; the master and the boatswain 
Uninhabitable , and almost inaccessible ,
Unless I be reliev'd by prayer ,
Unnatural though thou art !Their understanding 
Untie the spell .
Upon a sore injunction : my sweet mistress 
Upon mine honour , sir , I heard a humming ,
Upon this island as a spy , to win it 
Upon this shore , where you were wrack'd , was landed ,
Upon thy wicked dam , come forth !
Upon your heads ,is nothing but heart-sorrow 
Very foul .
Very like ; one of them 
Very well .
Vines , with clust'ring bunches growing ;
Wallets of flesh ? or that there were such men 
Was dukedom large enough : of temporal royalties 
Was Duke of Milan , and his only heir 
Was ever conduct of : some oracle 
Was grown into a hoop ? hast thou forgot her ?
Was in the wrack ; and , but he's something stain'd 
Was I then to you !
Was I , to take this drunkard for a god ,
Was Milan thrust from Milan , that his issue 
Was the first man that leap'd ; cried , 'Hell is empty ,
Was't well done ?
Water with berries in't ; and teach me how 
Weak masters though ye be I have bedimm'd 
We all were sea-swallow'd , though some cast again ,
We are merely cheated of our lives by drunkards .
We cannot miss him : he does make our fire ,
Weeping again the king my father's wrack ,
Weeps when she sees me work , and says such baseness 
We first put out to sea .
Weigh'd between loathness and obedience , at 
Well .
Well demanded , wench :
Well done ! avoid ; no more !
Well , here's my comfort .
Well ; I am standing water .
Well , I conceive .
Well , I have done : but yet 
We'll not run , Monsieur monster .
We'll visit Caliban my slave , who never 
We must prepare to meet with Caliban .
Were but my trials of thy love , and thou 
Were I but where 'tis spoken .
Were most impertinent .
Were then my fellows ; now they are my men .
Were wrack'd upon this shore ; where I have lost ,
We say befits the hour .
'We split , we split !' 'Farewell , my wife and children !' 
We two , my lord ,
We were awak'd ; straightway , at liberty :
We wish your peace .
We would so , and then go a-bat-fowling .
What a blow was there given !
What ! all so soon asleep ! I wish mine eyes 
What a pied ninny's this ! Thou scurvy patch !
What , Ariell my industrious servant Ariell 
What ! art thou waking ?
What a strange drowsiness possesses them !
What best is boded me to mischief ! I ,
What foul play had we that we came from thence ?
What great hope have you ! no hope that way is 
What harmony is this ? my good friends , hark !
What I command , I'll rack thee with old cramps ,
What I desire to give ; and much less take 
What if he had said , widower  neas too ? Good Lord , how you take it !
What impossible matter will he make easy next ?
What I must strive to do .
What ! I say ,
What I shall die to want . But this is trifling ;
What is't ? a spirit ?
What is the time o' th' day ?
What is this maid , with whom thou wast at play ?
What is this same ?
What is't thou canst demand ?
What is your name ?
What , must our mouths be cold ?
What's dearest to the world ! Full many a lady 
What shall I do ? say what ? what shall I do ?
What's the matter ?
What's the matter ? Have we devils here ? Do you put tricks upon us with savages and men of Ind ? Ha ! I have not 'scaped drowning , to be afeard now of your four legs ; for it hath been said , As proper a man as ever went on four legs cannot make him give ground : and it shall be said so again while Stephano breathes at's nostrils .
What stuff is this !How say you ?
What things are these , my lord Antonio ?
What thou should'st be . The occasion speaks thee ; and 
What torment I did find thee in ; thy groans 
What wert thou , if the King of Naples heard thee ?
What would my potent master ? here I am .
When every grief is entertain'd that's offer'd ,
When first I rais'd the tempest . Say , my spirit ,
When he comes back ; you demi-puppets , that 
When he is earth'd , hath here almost persuaded ,
When I arriv'd and heard thee , that made gape 
When I have deck'd the sea with drops full salt ,
When I shall think , or Ph bus' steeds are founder'd ,
When it is bak'd with frost .
When I wore it at your daughter's marriage ?
When no man was his own .
When Prospero is destroyed .
When the sea is . Hence ! What cares these roarers for the name of king ? To cabin : silence ! trouble us not .
When you are by at night . I do beseech you 
When you are cloudy .
When you should bring the plaster .
Where , but even now , with strange and several noises 
Wherefore did they not 
Wherefore this ghastly looking ?
Wherefore weep you ?
Where he himself was lost ; Prospero his dukedom 
Where I have hope to see the nuptial 
Wherein the acorn cradled . Follow .
Where is the master , boson ?
Where man doth not inhabit ; you 'mongst men 
Where my son lies . When did you lose your daughter ?
Whereof the ewe not bites ; and you , whose pastime 
Whereof what's past is prologue , what to come 
Where she at least is banish'd from your eye ,
Where should they be set else ? he were a brave monster indeed , if they were set in his tail .
Where should this music be ? i' th' air , or th' earth ?
Where the bee sucks , there suck I 
Where the quick freshes are .
Where thou may'st knock a nail into his head .
Where thou thyself dost air : the queen o' the sky ,
Where we , in all her trim , freshly beheld 
Whe'r thou beest he or no ,
Whether this be ,
Whether you will or no .
Which any print of goodness will not take ,
Which brought us hither !
Which but three glasses since we gave out split ,
Which end o' the beam should bow . We have lost your son ,
Which enter'd their frail shins : at last I left them 
Which first was mine own king ; and here you sty me 
Which here in this most desolate isle , else falls 
Which I dispers'd , they all have met again ,
Which I do last pronounce , is ,O you wonder !
Which is from my remembrance . Please you , further .
Which is most faint : now , 'tis true ,
Which is not yet perform'd me .
Which now came from him .
Which now's upon us ; without the which this story 
Which , of he or Adrian , for a good wager , first begins to crow ?
Which pierces so that it assaults 
Which shall be shortly , single I'll resolve you ,
Which since have steaded much ; so , of his gentleness ,
Which spongy April at thy hest betrims ,
Which thou forget'st . This damn'd witch , Sycorax ,
Which thou heard'st cry , which thou saw'st sink . Sit down ;
Which thou tak'st from me . When thou camest first ,
Which throes thee much to yield .
Which to you shall seem probable ,of every 
Which was , that he , in lieu o' the premises 
Which was thrust forth of Milan ; who most strangely 
Which was to please . Now I want 
Which , when he has a house , he'll deck withal :
While I sit lazy by .
Whiles thou art waking .
Whiles thus you mock it ! how , in stripping it ,
Whiles we stood here securing your repose ,
While you here do snoring lie ,
Who am myself attach'd with weariness ,
Who are surpris'd withal ; but my rejoicing 
Who had , no doubt , some noble creatures in her ,
Who hadst deserv'd more than a prison .
Who hath cause to wet the grief on't .
Who having , into truth , by telling of it ,
Who in this kind of merry fooling am nothing to you ; so you may continue and laugh at nothing still .
Who is so far from Italy remov'd ,
Who mak'st a show , but dar'st not strike , thy conscience 
Whom I left cooling of the air with sighs 
Whom I , with this obedient steel ,three inches of it ,
Whom now I keep in service . Thou best know'st 
Whom stripes may move , not kindness ! I have us'd thee ,
Whom thus we stray to find ; and the sea mocks 
Whose enmity he flung aside , and breasted 
Whose heads stood in their breasts ? which now we find 
Whose inward pinches therefore are most strong ,
Whose shadow the dismissed bachelor loves ,
Whose vows are , that no bed-rite shall be paid 
Whose watery arch and messenger am I ,
Who shall be of as little memory 
Who's the next heir of Naples ?
Who , though they are of monstrous shape , yet , note ,
Who was so firm , so constant , that this coil 
Who , with a charm join'd to their suffer'd labour ,
Who with mine eyes ,ne'er since at ebb ,beheld 
Who with thy saffron wings upon my flowers 
Who would believe that there were mountaineers 
Why 
Why , as I told thee , 'tis a custom with him 
Why , how now ! ho , awake ! Why are you drawn ?
Why , how now , Stephano !
Why , in good time .
Why , I said nothing .
Why speaks my father so ungently ? This 
Why , that's my dainty Ariel ! I shall miss thee ;
Why , that's my spirit !
Why , what did I ? I did nothing . I'll go further off .
Widow ! a pox o' that ! How came that widow in ? Widow Dido !
Widow Dido , said you ? you make me study of that : she was of Carthage , not of Tunis .
Will be here with mop and mow .
Will cry it o'er again : it is a hint ,
Will ever after droop . Here cease more questions ;
Will guard your person while you take your rest ,
Will hum about mine ears ; and sometime voices ,
Will make mesleep again : and then , in dreaming ,
Will money buy them ?
Will not , nor cannot , use such vigilance 
Will shortly fill the reasonable shores 
Will't please you to taste of what is here ?
Will we take throughly .
Wilt thou destroy him then ?
With aged cramps , and more pinch-spotted make them 
With a heaviness that's gone .
With all prerogative :Hence his ambition growing ,
With all the honours on my brother : whereon ,
With an eye of green in't .
With colours fairer painted their foul ends .
With dry convulsions ; shorten up their sinews 
With eyes wide open ; standing , speaking , moving ,
With foreheads villanous low .
With full and holy rite be minister'd ,
With gold on lasting pillars . In one voyage 
With grief ,that's beauty's canker ,thou might'st call him 
With hair up-staring ,then like reeds , not hair ,
With his own bolt : the strong-bas'd promontory 
Within this half hour will he be asleep ;
Within two days for this .
With its sweet air : thence I have follow'd it ,
With much more ease ; for my good will is to it ,
Without a parallel : those being all my study ,
Without or grudge or grumblings : thou didst promise 
Without sweat or endeavour : treason , felony ,
With raven's feather from unwholesome fen 
With so full soul but some defect in her 
With such discourse as , I not doubt , shall make it 
With such love as 'tis now , the murkiest den ,
With that , which , but by being so retir'd ,
With the help of your good hands .
With those that I saw suffer : a brave vessel ,
With words that made them known : but thy vile race ,
With your sedg'd crowns , and ever-harmless looks ,
Work not so hard : I would the lightning had 
Work you , then .
Worthily purchas'd , take my daughter : but 
Worthy Sebastian ? O ! what might ?No more :
Would be as heavy to me as odious ; but 
Would become tender .
Would cry to a sailor , 'Go hang !' 
Would even infect my mouth , I do forgive 
Would here have kill'd your king ; I do forgive thee ,
Would I admit ; no name of magistrate ;
Would I might 
Would I not have ; but nature should bring forth ,
Would not infect his reason ?
Would , with themselves , shut up my thoughts : I find 
Wound the loud winds , or with bemock'd-at stabs 
Yea , all which it inherit , shall dissolve 
Yea , his dread trident shake .
Yea , yea , my lord : I'll yield him thee asleep ,
Ye elves of hills , brooks , standing lakes , and groves ;
Yes ; Caliban her son .
Yes , faith , and all his lords ; the Duke of Milan ,
Yes , for a score of kingdoms you should wrangle ,
Yet 
Yet 
Yet again ? what do you here ? Shall we give o'er , and drown ? Have you a mind to sink ?
Yet a tailor might scratch her where-e'er she did itch :
Yet he would be king on't .
Yet with my nobler reason 'gainst my fury 
Yields us kind answer .
You and your ways ; whose wraths to guard you from 
You are gentlemen of brave mettle : you would lift the moon out of her sphere , if she would continue in it five weeks without changing .
You are three men of sin , whom Destiny 
You , brother mine , that entertain'd ambition ,
: you cannot tell who's your friend ; open your chaps again .
You cram these words into mine ears , against 
You'd be king of the isle , sirrah ?
You did supplant your brother Prospero .
You do look , my son , in a mov'd sort ,
You do yet taste 
You have not sought her help ; of whose soft grace ,
You have often 
You have taken it wiselier than I meant you should .
You look wearily .
You may deny me ; but I'll be your servant 
You more invest it ! Ebbing men , indeed ,
Young Ferdinand ,whom they suppose is drown'd ,
Young scamels from the rock . Wilt thou go with me ?
You nymphs , call'd Naiades , of the windring brooks ,
Your compensation makes amends ; for I 
Your eld'st acquaintance cannot be three hours :
Your lieutenant , if you list ; he's no standard .
Your own .
Your royal fleet far off .
Your swords are now too massy for your strengths ,
Your tale , sir , would cure deafness .
You said our work should cease .
You sun-burn'd sicklemen , of August weary ,
You taught me but while-ere ?
You taught me language : and my profit on't 
You the like loss !
You were kneel'd to and importun'd otherwise 
